---
layout: post
title: Update 3.3.10
date: 2026-05-03 13:40
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

#### Kyosha
 - Senju had it clarified how Wood Clones handle Wounds, and that their basic Dodge and Parry actions do not cost AP.
 - Senju had it clarified how Wood Four Pillars Prison handles environmental effects, and is explicit about them being unable to be stacked on top of one another.
 - Nara's Shadow Neck Bind had its effects text cleaned up a bit, and made it clearer the bonuses from repeat uses for its Wound roll apply regardless of which option you choose.
 - Nara's Shadow Imitation adds to the cumulative break chance if they are attacked and allowed to defend, and it was made clearer how the Nara uses an NDB grapple, while the person held uses a normal grapple defense.
 - Nara's Shadow Imitation can not be used to hold someone in place for multiple attacks done simultaneously; you can hold them for one, but all others they gain the 'relax' option. 
 - Nara's Shadow Sewing had the Projectile tag added to it.
 - Yotsuki's Doton Kiryu had the 'non-grapple' added back, whoops.
 - Swordsman Corp's Chakra Flow Parry Tassel had it specified it is allowing Elemental Ninjutsu to be parried.

#### Uniques 
 - Seal Master's ability to reduce the speed of actions no longer applies to actions without a Seal Speed (regardless of whether they gain one from a Link).
 - Surging Power now applies its penalty reduction to all Fatigue penalties (rather than just Accuracy and Defensive rolls).

## Combat
 - Ignite was changed to deal damage equal to two times its severity (from one), to coincide with Hard to Kill's changes.
 - Interrupts gained some new text, as Defensive Interrupts which have their Speeds increased (such as through Wounds or Status Effects like Shock) can have those speed increases fully negated by AP.
 - Lacerated Leg (Slashing Minor Leg) was changed to be a -2 immobility penalty, and clarified how it stacks, reopening the wound (as if you had moved with its previous reopening rule), resetting and increasing its duration.

## Abilities
 - Cunning Blow had a bunch of old errata added to it for the inevitable questioning, but was also nerfed to be the first attack you make, rather than any, within its 10 IC window.
 - Hard to Kill was changed from 10% per rank (with a RES/20 limit) to 3% and 2 DR per rank (with a RES/10 limit).
 - Principle of Motion now has a minimum AP cost of 8.
 - Instrument Mastery had its XP cost reduced from 20 to 10.
 - Crescendo had its XP cost reduced from 20 to 10.
 - Bravado had its XP cost reduced from 20 to 15.

#### Taijutsu
 - Trip (E-rank Unarmed) had its consecutive bonus re-integrated, albeit it only gives it when you fail the athletics roll (Rather than versus every attempt, as it had been).
 - Headbutt (D-rank Grapple) now takes into account the user's Resilient ranks to determine if you wound yourself from its use.
 - Suplex (C-rank Grapple) had it added that it can't be performed if you are prone (to avoid direct chaining), and noted that the target can stand up from prone upon grapple end or control changing (it was just the former).
 - Centipede Strike (D-rank Weapon) has its X as one plus consecutive uses (rather than just consecutive uses), and had its Stamina cost reduced to X (from 2 + X).
 - Jouro Senbon (C-rank Weapon) had its cost increased to Chakra 30, its Speed reduced to 20, its damage for each volley based off of its Speed changed to (Spd performed at)/2 (from /5), but lost its restriction to have requisitioned the Senbon used in it.
 - Houfuku (B-rank Weapon) gained +1d_ per point your Parry roll was above the Accuracy of the attack you successfully parried to enable its use, to a maximum of double its dice.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Earth Style Fist had it added its X is a minimum of one, and its Upkeep reduced by 1 (to 1 + X), and was changed to a maximum X of NBD/3, rounded up, but lost its penalty to be parried.
 - Mud Clone (D-rank Doton) now automatically traps weapons they are hit with, and requires at least one grapple roll in order to free them.  This makes the weapon usage more on par with the unarmed.
 - Earth Prison Dome got a buff: it is now considered blocking for effects where relevant (large thrown, etc).  It got a bit more text about how other environmentals work with it.
 - Hiding like a Mole had a revamp: It lost its self-Stun, it uses a Stealth +5 vs Awareness roll, and had some more text added for what you can do while submerged.
 - Douchuu Eigyo was changed to allow its use to submrge yourself underground at any time (rather than being used only after Moguragakure).  It does not, however, hide you as part of its effects.
 - Double Suicide Decapitation Technique was buffed: if used while submerged (such as from the above two jutsu), you gain +3 to your Accuracy (and end your submersion).
 - Four Seasonal Wind Palm (D-rank Fuuton) had its penalty to being parried increased by 1, to 3.
 - Phoenix Wings (D-rank Katon) lost its Seal Speed increase (which was a bit superfluous, as it never added to anything), but gained Speed: +2 and the Link tag.
 - Strengthening Seal had Dark Sealing Method's effects added to it and the two jutsu effectively combined, as you wanted to use them together in most cases.  It was also moved down from B to C rank (taking Dark Sealing Method's place), and now blocks chakra sensors/byakugan from being able to discern through it (those inside can't see/sense others outside, and vice versa). 

#### Genjutsu
 - Brain Destruction does not grant benefits to the *attacker* from wounding their target, which extends to Iron Maiden likewise.

#### Equipment
 - Madara has been born; Gunbai had its Accuracy penalty removed.
 - Tetsubo had its base damage increased to 15d12 (from 12d12).
 - Kama had its base damage increased to 4d8 (from 3d8).
 - Yari had its base damage increased to 10d12 (from 8d12). 
 - Zanbato had its base damage increased to 20d12 (from 15d12).
 - Bow, Yumi had its increase to your Damage Bonus increased to 50% (from 25%).
 - Dismounting Attack noted you do not gain the benefits of being mounted for the attack.

## Talents
 - Substituion Monkey now only loses one clone (which is lost before Migawizaru) if attacked with an Area of Effect attack, and had its CE cost reduced to 20 (from 32).
 - Tracking Fang technique got a glow up: It now auto-hits (though still requires blood on its target), and you can use your own Survival ranks or 3 + XP/200, whichever is higher, and can be used even if one ninken is recovering from taking damage, though its maximum Immobility penalty is reduced, and restricted to, the number of Ninken you have available (and vice versa).
 - Leech Swarm got a new Breach of Contract restriction regarding those in captivity, with some added details on what that means, and will unsummon themselves to prevent insta-kill scenarios with their use.