---
layout: post
title: Update 3.3.9
date: 2026-03-29 12:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---
#### Kyosha
 - Niou's Invisible Tempest had the Link tag added to it; it always was one, it just lacked the tag.
 - Doujutsu (Byakugan, Sharingan, Ketsuryugan) had it added that Activating *and* Deactivating them is a Speed 0 action.
 - Akimichi's base Speed increase from Baika was changedf from X/2 to X/5, rounding up, instead of down.
 - Akimichi's Cho Baika now also grants +X/2 to Resistance rolls against elemental ninjutsu status effects.
 - Akimichi's Human Bullet Tank now has you unable to be knocked Prone while Rolling, and allows you recover from it automatically if you ever begin Rolling.
 - Akimichi's Bowl no longer starts at half IC advancement on hit, instead applying a Speed reduction of 2 per hit up to half your Bowl attack's Speed; it was also added you lose all bonuses from Bowl hits when you stop Rolling.
 - Akimichi's Spiked Human Bullet Tank notes the damage for being attacked in melee is a contact effect.
 - Akimichi's Pills got some updates to keep the copacetic wtih the Poison changes: they suppress other Poison special effects automatically for their duration, but combine with other Poisons for their Severity.  Each Pill version also had its Fatigue advancement upon their expiration decreased by 1.
 - Aburame got overhauled, and changed to another version they've had before with some updates accordingly to remain -1 UP.
 - Inuzuka's DR Shred via Four-legged was reworded; it applies even if you deal no damage, and works on any damaging unarmed attack.
 - Chinoike had their Bleed status stacking changed to be more favorable to them, and Scarlet Kiss notes it applies to the highest removable Bleed source, and its penalties are applied at X/4, rather than X/5.
 - Yotsuki's Doton Kiryu lost its auto-trip ability: it ended up making it too much of its own setup *and* finisher for a minor clan, on top of the DR it granted.

#### Uniques 
 - Analyst is now a flat +2 to your defensive roll if someone uses the same category of attack against you, rather than tiered at +1 into +2.
 - Competitive was changed to a default +1 to d20 rolls, its Accuracy from missing attacks now only applies *to* attacks (rather than Parry as well which kept it at a constant bonus), but in return it gained an additional 3% damage per time you miss, reseting with the Accuracy bonus.
 - Strong-Willed was changed to apply to status effect penalties only (rather than all).
 - Genjutsu Specialist was changed to grant -3 to its costs if specialized (and +3 if unspecialized).
 - Elemental Mastery's status effect was changed to a flat cost; its effect is now based on your prior elemental jutsu type (which has to differ from your current element's to gain a bonus), with its strength determined by your current jutsu's Rank.

## Combat
 - Profuse Bleeding (Minor Slashing Head wound) had its consecutive Bleed reduced to +1 (from +2), and its Suffocate reduced to 1.
 - Prone was officially added as a Status Effect, and had its effects detailed in that section; it also now knocks airborne (and/or flying) targets to the ground, as part of its effects. 
 - Broken Ribs (Severe Blunt Torso wound) applies its penalty doubling on attacks which *hit you and deal damage*, rather than just the attack itself being the impetus.
 - Stamina and Chakra Exhaustion penalties from passing a fatigue roll can no longer be reduced below 1 (most notably by the uniques Endless Energy and Boundless Chakra).

## Abilities
 - Nimble (the ability) was renamed to Evasion, to make sure the sheet keepers are kept on their toes.
 - Blunt: Stun had it added to it that you need to hit with a damaging attack to apply its Stun.

## Jutsu
 - Medical Ninjutsu may no longer be used by any type of clone, with the exception of Chakra Scalpel and Nervous System Derangement.
 - The above was also added to the laundry list of Clone rules.

#### Taijutsu
 - Manipulated Shuriken had the Link tag added to it; it always was one, it just lacked the tag.
 - Oak Flight gained some new rules for its Daze, not fully clearing on Rest but instead lowered by the amount Rest would lower your stamina penalty.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Vital Repair (Medical, D-rank) was changed to be a VSA action.
 - Hemostatis (Medical, C-rank) was given some new text in relation to Vital Repair and Mystic Palm.
 - Mystic Palm (Medical, B-rank) was changed to be a VSA action.
 - Dokugiri (General, B-rank) was changed to have the same 10 IC delay to be poisoned while within the cloud, though it retains its exposure from making a Stamina roll.
 - Mud Wave (Doton, C-rank) had its Stun increased to 2 + NDB/2 (from /3), and had it added that you lose its benefits while flying or airborne.
 - Every element other than Katon got a new D-rank jutsu: Miyuri (Suiton), Kuwabara (Raiton), Chigeshi (Doton), and Senkousai (Fuuton).

#### Equipment
- Discard Weapon mentions that you can discard one or two weapons, and no longer has an archaic 'after AP reductions' stipulation, and had it clarified that it is on defensive interrupt (rather than simply interrupt).
- Added more text clarifying that you must keep both hands on a two-handed weapon unless you have Monkey Grip, and clarifications regarding the two-handed damage bonus multiplier.