---
layout: post
title: Update 3.3.7
date: 2026-2-15 13:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

Updating the game to Wayward's setting and rules changes (though most of them here are for immediately before it).

***
#### Creation
 - Willpower as a stat now has a maximum of 1+(Stats/250), from (Stats/100).   

#### Villages
 - Villages, as they were known, are gone! Fitting for the Warring States era this restart takes place in (as an AU prequel, of sorts), there are three main organizations, or Kyosha: The Way of Sun and Moon, The Temperance, and The Pride.  Clans can be found within them instead of within Villages, which do not exist.
 - Yurigami were added to The Way of Sun and Moon, now in the PHB.
 - Yotsuki were added to The Temperance.
 - Yogani were added to The Temeperance.
 - Monkasei's Jiton now only increase the base Speed of non-interrupt Fuuton converted to Jiton (rather than both Fuuton and Doton).
 - Monkasei's Charge was reduced in the minimum base Speed it can lower Jiton Interrupts to, to 4 (from 2).
 - Monkaei's Jiton no longer applies a minimum CE cost of 10. 
 - Hyuuga's Jyuuken no longer halves the user's NDB, but also does not deal damage to an opponent's HP (via bypassing Vitality).
 - Hyuuga's Finishers received nerfs: 64 palms no longer has +0.5 Immobilize in its Combo Bonus line.
 - Hyuug'as 128-palms had its base damage decreased to CHA/4 (from CHA/2) to determine its base d4, and lost the Stun on its Combo Bonus line, which is now exclusive to 64-palms. 
 - Uchiha can now store up to two copied jutsu for free per Sharingan stage, rather than having an XP discount for copying or being able to copy a jutsu rank above their normal limit.
 - Kaguya's Dance of the Larch lost its wording about Slashing wounds, which should've been removed when it gained Tags.
 - Juugo Suto's Tenacity was reduced to 3 ranks; this should make them feel *slightly* less impossible to off-balance.
 - Aburame now recover (1 + Max WP) Female Kikai per day, rather than (1 + Max WP/2).
 - Sabechi were overhauled, due to the changes with Poisons, using Soul's work.
 - Swordsman Corps had notes added to them about what using the tassel feature to add one of Fan, Chain, or Polearm did to them (in addition to allowing you to use jutsu of those types).

#### Uniques 
 - Analyst now grants 5 ranks of the Research skill for free, with an additional free Rank for every 200 XP you have.
 - Naturalist no longer grants a Seal Speed reduction, and had its ability to use Survival ranks in lieu of Research ranks limited to Elemental Ninjutsu only.
 - Killer was renamed to Surgeon, and more or less lifted from Absolution, but lost its Anatomical Knowledge cost reduction.
 - Applied Knowledge is dead.  Long live Applied Knowledge.
 - Surging Power is no longer halved, to coincide with the Max WP change. 
 - Hidden Potential was changed alongside other WP changes to make it (stats/200), from (stats/90), which is actually a buff! Trust me.
 - Restrained (1-pt) lost its extra wound reduction, but now can, when you utilizing the Holding Back ability to reduce a minor wound to no wound, prevent Genjutsu from breaking.
 - Insidious, a two point unique focused on poisons, was added from Absolution.  It  can upgrade from Full Pockets, and into Tactician.

## Abilities
 - Accurate was removed, which (should/may) make Dexterity slightly less mandatory as a top stat.
 - Evasive was removed, which (should/may) make Agility slightly less mandatory as a top stat.
 - Desperation was reduced to requiring only 3 Willpower (from 6).
 - Focus was reduced to requiring only 3 Willpower (from 4).
 - Instrument abilities were added in the Sensory section.

#### Taijutsu
 - Unarmed Taijutsu gained a flat amount of dice to them equal to their Rank, for those that dealt damage; some others were given minor tweaks to their scaling.
 - Thrusting Shoulder (D-rank Unarmed) was changed to (2 + RES/8)d8, from RES/10.
 - Painful Sky Leg (C-rank UnarmeD) was changed to (3 + STR/6)d12, from STR/8.
 - Painful Sky Leg and Deadly Heel Strike had their effects wording cleaned up for clarity.
 - Pressure Palm (C-rank Unarmed) was changed to (3 + STR/6)d8, from STR/8.
 - Pain Driver (C-rank Unarmed) was changed to (3 + STR/6)d6, from STR/8.
 - Upwards Attacking Palm (B-rank Unarmed) was changed to (8 + STR/6)d12, from (3 + STR/6).
 - Cherry Blossom Impact (A-rank Unarmed) was changed to (5 + X + STR/6)d12, from STR/8.
 - Finger Gun (A-rank Unarmed) was changed to (5 + STR/3)d6, from STR/4.
 - Rising Sun Strike (A-rank Unarmed) was changed to (5 + STR/3)d6, from STR/4.
 - Grapples received a minor overhaul, and had their base damages modified (for those that dealt damage), consistent with the general buff seen given to unarmed damage as a whole.
 - The attacker in a grapple now rolls PDB + AGI/15, and the defender rolls PDB + DEX/15 (flipping where DEX and AGI grant bonuses).
 - Grapple jutsu can now be Blocked, unless they say otherwise (e.g., Throw, Suplex).
 - Grab (E-rank Grapple) was reduced to Stamina 6 on a miss, from 8.
 - Throw no longer causes damage as a Speed 16 action when used as a link (using Grab's base Speed of 12, instead), and made it clear when used as a link, Grab is not establishing a grapple.
 - Head Lock, Arm Lock, and Leg Lock were consolidated into a single Jutsu: Lock, and had their base Speed reduced to 6 (from 8).  You pick which of the three you perform when you use it, and there were slight modifications to their effects.
 - Lock: Arm had its Immobility and Grapple roll penalties increased by one (to 2 and 3, respectively).  One Arm Lock now prevents the use of weapons wielded in two hands; double arm lock restricts you to Small weapons.
 - Joint Lock was moved to Rank D (from C), and had its cumulative damage bonus reduced to +15% (from +25%) per previous use in the grapple.
 - Compression Hold references Lock, singular, from the plural it used to be.  It can still be applied to Head, Arm, or Leg locks.
 - Suplex now automatically prones both you and your target instead of ending the grapple, and can not be blocked; the attacker can stand back up if they wish, while the defender can not until the grapple is ended.
 - KuroKumaKen requires both arms to be locked and with Compression Hold applied to one such Lock to be used (Rather than just requiring Compression Hold itself, as before).  It also no longer does a triple wound to both arms and torso; you instead roll 1d3, and apply the wound to the target's torso, or one of their arms, respectively.  It also ends the locks required in order to perform it.
 - Dragon Takedown had its Stamina roll reduced to base 5 + X (from 10 + X).
 - Full Nelson had its Stamina reduced to 16 (from 20), and Speed reduced to 10 (from 16), and now applies the penalties of a head and double arm lock (except for immob/grapple rolls), though it does not allow you to perform a KuroKumaKen quicker (as it is not actually applying a double arm lock).
 - Lion Execution now explicitly precludes KuroKumaKen from being an option you can choose.

#### Ninjutsu 
 - Dust wind (E-Rank Fuuton) was reduced to a -3 Vis Pen (from 4).  
 - Element Sealing Method (B-Rank Sealing) can no longer remove active upkeeps others are maintaining.  
 - Transcription Seal can not be used to share clan techniques with others ordinarily incapable of using them (i.e., those not of your clan), with the exception of Elemental Ninjutsu, and had furhter changes to how it works with variable-cost jutsu.
 - Great Breakthrough (C-rank Fuuton) lost its text about what Wounds it deals; it has tags.  
 - Clay Bullet (D-Rank Doton) was reduced to Immob 4 (from 5).  
 - Dokugiri (B-rank General Ninjutsu) was changed to utilize the second highest (amongst the four skills it requires), rather than the lowest.  

#### Genjutsu
- Five Monkey Curse was returned to B-rank following the changes to Restrained and with the addition of Instruments (and regained its old statistics, as well).  It was lowered to make Gen slightly more accessible, but that can be found elsewhere now.

## Equipment
 - Flash Bombs had their Visibility Penalty reducd to -3 (from 4), and their Area reduced to 5 (from 10), and if used as a Link only apply to the defensive roll it's used with (rather than 10 IC, when used as a non-interrupt).
 - Smoke Bombs were reduced to Area 5 (from 10).
 - Large Thrown weapons had their STR-based dice changed to STR/10 (from STR/12).
 - Bow, Daikyu now deals STR/4 dice (from STR/8).
 - Bow, Yumi now deals STR/6 dice (from STR/10).
 - Poisons were overhauled, thanks to Soul (using Absolution's version of them for further testing).
 - Instruments were added under Ninja Equipment, and as a Tag, which includes Sound Pads, another new item.

## Advancement
 - Will of Fire had its Duration doubled to Willpower * 10 IC.
 - Rare Poisons updated alongside Poison changes.

## Talents
 - Natural Chakra's A Tranquil Body and A Tranquil Mind (Enlightened tier abilities) were increased to reduce your current stamina and CE penalties by 2 (from 1).  This should give early Meditation usage some competitive edge cases against, say, Rest.
 - Natural Chakra's Path to Inner Peace (Sage ability) allows you to End Meditation as a Speed 0 action, with an option to spend 1 Willpower to give it the Interrupt quality, once per battle; Sage Mode's NC decay now begins only after your first non-interrupt action following activation of Sage Mode.
 - Natural Chakra's costs changed from 100, 150, 250 (in total XP costs for that tier's abilities) to 50, 100, and 150, respectively, changing the total XP commitment from 500 to 300.  This, combined with the above changes, should hopefully make Natural Chakra much more accessible, without drastically modifying its direct power.
 - Skill Specialist now gives +5 SP baseline (for 5 + EXP/200 total), making it truly 'a talent for an extra maximum-rank skill' in most cases.  This mostly serves to try and make it more competitive as an early talent choice.
 - Rejuvenation, from Gate two, no longer reduces Burns acquired by using the Gates, which means you can not Rejuv off Energy wounds with it.
 - Snake's Hidden Shadow Snake Hands was modified to function with the new Poison rules (removing individual Poison statuses and durations according to snake type, namely).  It also uses your own ranks, or its own scaling, for all Poison effects (severity/duration/etc).
 - Cobra's Venom was similarly updated to the new Poison rules.
 - Spider's Spider Bite jutsu had its cost reduced to 30 (from 45), and no longer references picking between Black Widow or Brown Recluse (as the former does not exist), instead applying a variant of both.
