---
layout: post
title: Update 3.3.8
date: 2026-03-15 17:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
---
#### Kyosha
 - Hyuuga's Sealed Tenketsu now does damage normally (instead of direct-to-HP), to coincide with its Jyuuken reversion.
 - Hyuuga's Sealed Tenketsu is explicit about what happens when the action fails.
 - Inuzuka's Ninken now get (1 + XP/250) abilities, up from XP/500.
 - Tsuga reduces its Stamina cost by 2 per consecutive usage, rather than 1.
 - Tsuga's movement was modified to be a minimum of its listed range, and an added optional amount of your attack-move.
 - Yurigami received several changes:
 - Paper Control is explicit about you beginning with and having a maximum amount of personal paper.
 - The amount of extra Vitality they get from Rice Paper Creation was changed to 10 per rank (from CHA/5), which stops the double-CHA-scaling.
 - Origami Paper Assimilation had its amount you can recall at once lowered to Rank * 10, mostly to make you actually have to manage it, and had its XP cost per rank reduced to 3, from 5.
 - Origami Body and Dance of the Shikigami had their names swapped for what they apply to: Origami Body is now the jutsu, Dance the ability.
 - Paper Shuriken were changed slightly, no longer benefitting from homing but can benefit from Sudden Attack, with some wording clarifications.
 - Origami Body gained the Preparation tag.
 - Dance of the Shikigami gained an Upkeep of 2, and got an overhaul: You are now Stunned if you are forced to drop the upkeep (since it is an action to go into and out of the form), its Block ability gained a Speed of 2, it's explicit you are always flying and at half movement speed in it (And can not be mounted), and you lose armor-tagged equipment benefits while in the form.  Its dodge penalty against AoE's was changed to merely cancel out its inherernt dodge bonus, and it gained some more general capabilites for grappling, but lost its ability to interrupt-escape grapples.
 - Sabechi's Demonic Blood Cultivation can no longer change to, or from, the Brown Recluse special effect.
 - Swordsman Corp's Clan Swords had it added that Weapon Focus: Katana works on all of them.
 - Swordman Corp's Tassel feature to replace the Sword tag with another was made explicit about you still being able to use clan abilities with it.

#### Uniques 
 - Fan of Knives had its unique attack-parry modified.
 - Elemental Mastery had some additional clarifications added for Nintaijutsu and how Shaping options work.

## Combat
 - Blocking explicitly takes precedence over Called Shots for determining Wound location.
 - Attacks which inflict multiple wounds still only roll location once, and use that result for each wound type.
 - Blocking attacks which inflict multiple wounds allows you to pick the location for each wound individually.

#### Taijutsu
 - Double Star Fang (D-rank Weapon) had it noted it requires additional arrows and can not be used to attack the same target with said additional arrows.

## Equipment
 - Box Jellyfish had it made explicit what happens when it causes an action to fail.